[Music]
if you're like me and who wouldn't want
to be then you probably also wake up at
3 a.m. sometimes with a flood of urgent
questions in your mind how do barcode
readers work how did bubble wrap appear
and most importantly is there a reason
most erasers are pink well here we go
ever paid attention to those metal or
plastic tips on the ends of your
shoelaces
they're called Aglets sure they keep the
strings from fraying and they make
lacing your shoes a bit less
labor-intensive but here's the
surprising bit they appeared in ancient
Rome where people made them out of glass
or stone now the reason why the computer
mouse is named after that cute little
rodent is easy to explain the thing is
quick and small and not too long ago it
used to have a cord connecting it to the
computer that looked like a tail but
when the first computer mice appeared
producers refer to them as turtles make
sense they're covered with a hard shell
and all the moving parts are underneath
this shield obviously web cams let you
see your friends and relatives who can
be halfway across the world but few
people know that the web camera was
created with a bit less noble purpose it
was 1991 and Cambridge computer
scientists were getting frustrated you
see every time they went to the coffee
machine for a cup of joe there wouldn't
be any coffee left in the pie a journey
wasted one day they finally had enough
and simply invented the world's first
webcam they place the camera next to the
infamous coffee pot with a perfect view
to check the level then they'd know
right from their desks if the trip would
be worth the effort ah
what would childhood be without hours
spent sending a slinky down a staircase
aha good times
the popular toy has been around for over
70 years but there's more to the slinky
than stare time fun and a lot of tangles
it's older metal version used to serve
as a makeshift antenna for engineers and
soldiers and in 1985 one slinky
even made it to space
unfortunately it refused to slink in
zero-gravity astronauts reported that it
just drooped paper money isn't the only
reliable form of cash because bills tend
to wear out faster than you think
for example a u.s. $1 bill usually lasts
only for 18 months after that it must be
withdrawn from circulation and replaced
a $5 bill goes a bit longer for two
years a 10 for 3 years and a 20 for four
years as for 50 and $100 bills they last
the longest nine whole years and get
this the US Mint prints 37 million bills
a day but 95% of them go to replace old
ones that are dirty torn faded and
unusable hey I'll be happy to take that
dirty torn and faded cash call me maybe
t-shirts were invented at the beginning
of the 20th century in 1904 Cooper
underwear company advertised them as a
perfect product for bachelors couldn't
sew or reattach buttons to their shirts
back then you were supposed to wear a
t-shirt under your collared shirt as an
undergarment oh and all t-shirts at that
time were white no funny prints or
bright colors in 1957 engineers Alfred
fielding and Mark chauvinists decided to
seal two shower curtains together with
tiny bubbles of air stuck in between why
it was supposed to be a cool new idea
for wallpaper unfortunately for them
nobody was interested in bubbly wall
decor but in 1961 people realized that
this bubble wrap could be great
protection for fragile things the
company's first client was IBM who used
the stuff to cover their computers
during shipment I don't know I'm kind of
into that wallpaper idea now that I
think about it imagine how fun your
house could be erasers why are they
paying okay I know they now come in all
colors and shapes but I'm talking about
that classic bubblegum hue history's got
all the answers when a standalone eraser
appeared in 1960 it was made mainly of
rubber
and pumice without the pumice the thing
didn't have enough friction to erase
pencil marks pumice could be white or
red and the color of an eraser depended
on the hue of this volcanic rock that
year the Eberhard Faber pencil company
started to add pink pumice to their
erasers which became popular under the
name pink pearl nowadays producers don't
use pumice or natural rubber for their
erasers anymore but they decided to keep
the color as an homage to history
electric fans don't actually cool the
air if you put a thermometer anywhere
close to the working parts you'll see
the temperature rise due to the electric
current what it does do is cool your
skin the device speeds up the
evaporation process making sweat on your
skin colder rice is the oldest food on
your plate and I don't mean it's expired
rice is the product people have been
cultivating for the longest time from
12,000 to 15,000 years it first appeared
in ancient China's Pearl River Valley
thousands of years ago the only other
food that's almost as all is corn native
people in Mexico started growing it
between 7,000 and 12,000 years ago now
the keyboard you used today was
originally designed to slow you down the
position of the letters isn't as random
as it might seem it's called QWERTY
design see the top left row of letters
and it appeared in 1872 the main purpose
of this design was to slow down the
typist at that time they were getting
too fast for the machines they used as a
result typewriters jammed which wasted
tons of time and however
counterintuitive it may sound slowing
the type is down actually made them more
productive obviously there's no
practical need for the QWERTY keyboard
nowadays but people are so used to it
that is probably not worth coming up
with a new design you might have noticed
that some cables have clunky cylinders
on them these cylinders are called
ferrite chokes or ferrite bees and they
have an important function without them
cables turn into antennas that can pick
up and broadcast
electrical interference
the cylinders in turn choke this
interference now stick with me here
velcro was invented after a walk in the
forest George the Mistral the Swiss
inventor of the popular quick fastener
once noticed how burrs would stick to
his dog's fur and his own pant legs this
inspired him to come up with an idea of
creating the same effect for fabric now
Barbie saw the light of day in 1959 and
in the 1960s the legendary doll got a
fictional biography based in a series of
novels if you read them you'll find out
that her full name is Barbara Millicent
Roberts of willows Wisconsin and her
parents are George and Margaret Roberts
but they're all kind of artificial you
know what I mean despite what I used to
believe barcode readers aren't reading
the black parts of the code but the
white ones the reader emits rays of
light that fall on those bars when that
happens the white areas reflect this
light while the dark ones absorb it and
it's the reflected light which helps the
device read the code and give you the
information about the product man I used
to think a barcode meant how many
pretzels you were allowed to eat along
with your beverage in 1493 Christopher
Columbus brought some pineapples to
Europe and people fell in love with the
taste of the exotic fruit
sadly they needed tropical climates to
grow to perfection that's why the only
way to get yourself a pineapple was to
import it from across the Atlantic it
took ages and in the process fruits
could get rotten or bruised no wonder a
single pineapple could cost a ridiculous
amount of money it became a symbol of
status and people who couldn't afford to
buy one rented pineapples for a night to
show them off at their parties and now I
think I'll go back to sleep Barney's
coming soon but first if you've learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other great videos I know
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
and remember stay on the bright side of
life